All right, good afternoon.
My name is Nader Nafissi.
And I'm the product manager
for Apple Remote Desktop.
This is our last session
on ARD this week.
We've had a couple so far,
and it's been really well received.
And this session is,
we're not going to repeat the
lock screen demos anymore.
This is going to be totally, thank you,
yeah.
This is going to be more about just
applying some of the features you've
learned about so far this week.
So just to review, Apple Remote Desktop,
it's all about software distribution,
asset management, remote administration,
remote assistance.
And it is based on open standards.
And that's what we're really going to be
hinging the rest of this presentation on.
We're going to be showing you how you
can plug in and extend some of the
capabilities we have in the product.
And we've got three presenters here that
each one is going to be walking through
different parts of the product and just
showing you and giving you a little
bit of a look at what they're doing.
And we're going to be giving you ideas.
Some of them you can start using,
but some of the other demonstrations
are really intended to be just
giving you ideas about how you
can extend and integrate the
product into your environment.
So without further ado,
I'm going to introduce
Tony Graham here on stage.
I was actually planning on
demonstrating the lock feature.
That was my whole shtick.
Thanks, Nader.
Actually,
I'm going to cover two possible uses
for Apple Remote Desktop's capabilities.
The fact that it is based on open
standards and utilizing a database behind
the scenes and also has some command line
tools for managing and monitoring it.
Actually,
I'm going to cover two possible uses
for Apple Remote Desktop's capabilities.
The fact that it is based on open
standards and utilizing a database behind
the scenes and also has some command line
tools for managing and monitoring it.
[Transcript missing]
I find, and I'll show you in a
moment how that works,
that if you run it
with the dash H switch,
you'll get about three
pages worth of very,
very useful information.
But there's one particular thing that
I use it for every single time I use
Apple Remote Desktop and Kickstart,
and that is to find out how
to turn it on and enable all
privileges for a particular user,
usually an administrator.
So conveniently in the documentation,
their example for turning on
Remote Desktop using Kickstart
is for a user named Bob.
So if you run system library core
service remote management ARD agent.app
contents resources kickstart-h
and pipe that to grep on Bob,
you'll get a convenient one line
example for what you need to do
to turn on Apple Remote Desktop.
So conveniently in the documentation,
their example for turning on
Remote Desktop using Kickstart
is for a user named Bob.
So if you run system library core
service remote management ARD agent.app
contents resources kickstart-h
and pipe that to grep on Bob,
you'll get a convenient one line
example for what you need to do
to turn on Apple Remote Desktop.
SSH is enabled by default on all servers.
So if you walk into an environment
where you've got existing servers and
you need graphical control over them,
or perhaps you're setting up a cluster,
which could be eight servers
up to thousands of servers,
and you want to enable
Apple Remote Desktop,
this is immediately going
to be useful to you.
In a client scenario,
SSH may or may not be enabled,
so you may or may not be able
to take advantage of this.
Now, the path is rather long,
and the commands are rather long,
so I'll also show you how you
can wrap that command around a
GUI using a number of technologies,
but I'll show you with one of them.
The way I chose to do that
is with a program that
I wrote called the Activator.
And the Activator is a simple,
real basic application that
uses asynchronous shells so it
can issue Unix shell commands.
I pipe that big, long script in there,
click a button, and it turns on
Remote Desktop on that machine.
With the addition of
an inexpensive plugin,
Real Basic can browse and retrieve
entries on a rendezvous-enabled network.
And SSH on Mac OS X systems
will advertise their
ability through rendezvous.
So I can actually get a list of all the
machines on my network that have SSH on,
so I don't need to know the
IP addresses in advance.
Now we'll switch gears.
I'll show you the demo on
the activator in a moment,
and then we'll switch
gears to database access.
As you probably know,
Apple Remote Desktop stores the
data that it retrieves when doing a
system report in a Postgres database.
Now by default,
ARD is really the only thing
that can talk to that database,
but there are two configuration
files that you can modify that
will allow you to access that
database through command line tools,
through graphical
environments like Real Basic,
or any other of a number of
database access technologies
that can deal with Postgres.
Now by default,
ARD is really the only thing
that can talk to that database,
but there are two configuration
files that you can modify that
will allow you to access that
database through command line tools,
through graphical
environments like Real Basic,
or any other of a number of
database access technologies
that can deal with Postgres.
The first one is called Rmdb,
and it runs in a standard
Postgres installation,
for the instance that
Apple Remote Desktop is using.
Now, using a graphical environment
like Real Basic and a
plug-in that comes with it,
you can tap into the
database and explore it.
And I'll show you in a
moment how to do that.
There are two tables in the
database that you'll see.
One is the property name map table.
I haven't really found
too much to use that for.
The main one that I've used is
the system information table.
And in this table,
you'll find a line for every conceivable
property that Remote Desktop can
capture and the value that it captured.
One thing to note, though,
is that ARD only stores the
last value for that particular
property that was searched.
So there's no historical data.
You can't say, for example,
what was the amount of
RAM on this system last week.
So again, using Real Basic,
an application called ARD Tracker allows
you to periodically pull that database,
ARD's database, capture the information
that you care about,
and store that in another
database so that you can,
over time, collect that.
Folks could use this in lab management
scenarios or security scenarios
where you're monitoring your
equipment and then one day you notice,
because you're getting a report,
that the RAM in several of
the machines has gone down,
which is not normally the
way you want that to go.
So I'm not going to actually demonstrate
the removal of RAM from these machines.
I'll actually be capturing file
sharing information so we'll be
able to see if file sharing has been
enabled or disabled on those systems.
So we've got a couple
of demos that we'll do.
Thank you.
First thing we want to do is take a
quick look at the Kickstart script.
You've all been taking notes,
so you're going to tell me where it is,
right?
[Transcript missing]
This one line kickstart command
will configure the agent,
turn access on with all privileges
for the following users.
In their example, they use admin and Bob,
so you can set multiple
users in one command.
I don't have a Bob user on here,
but I can do that remotely.
Now,
we've got a bank of iMacs to your right.
There's nine of them.
And they currently have
the SSH daemon enabled,
the remote login daemon enabled,
but not Apple Remote Desktop.
So let's see if we can figure out how
to do that on one of those systems.
Get into one of those machines,
192.168 and 0.14,
and I'm going to send it a tail
minus f on /var/log/system.log.
As the agent is enabled or disabled,
it'll log to that file.
So we'll watch it in real time.
In this screen.
And I don't, yeah,
I guess that was lab number one.
So I gotta give it an admin user.
And this application is fairly simple.
It's simply going to take the
administrator that I punched in there
and the password that I punched in there.
You have to have that account
on the remote machine,
and that has to be the
account that you are,
in fact, enabling.
As you saw on the command line,
you could enable any number of accounts.
But this application will simply
assume that you want to enable
that one administrator account.
So let's see what happens
when we activate it.
And while that's going,
I probably should show you
that in Apple Remote Desktop,
Some of these systems are in fact off,
or at least not visible
to Apple Remote Desktop.
So some of them are
starting to come out now,
and it could take a while.
It actually, when you activate the agent,
it's going to start a
number of processes,
including the database
processes and the VNC process.
So we'll give that a minute.
Sometimes I get impatient,
I hit the button a few times.
While we're waiting for that to come up,
let's tap into the database as well.
As you probably know,
you can select machines in your list
and run a system overview report.
In this case,
I'm going to choose sharing.
And then we collect new
data for the report.
Those values are being
stored in Postgres.
Now using Real Basic with
the Postgres plugin,
I can develop a quick application.
Switch these around.
I first have to add a new data source.
And prior to doing the demo,
I did go into those two configuration
files and make two changes that
would allow another application
to talk to the ARD database.
So the database name is ARD,
and the password is ARD.
Sorry, the user is ARD.
And I blew my punchline.
The password is ARD as well.
And if you're able to
talk to your database,
you should be able to double
click on this and see those
two tables I told you about.
And the system information is the
table that I find the most useful.
If I hit edit schema here,
you can see the fields that are in there.
And the computer ID is a unique
ID for every machine that
you've added to your database,
and that's based on the
built-in Ethernet MAC address.
That shouldn't change.
Then for the things that
you're interested in,
there should be a property name
like file sharing is enabled
and a value like true or false,
yes or no, or a string or a number,
something along those lines.
Actually, they're all going to
be essentially strings,
but you get the idea.
Now,
if I want to see what's in that database,
I can switch to an empty window here,
and I'm going to drag a multi-column
list box off my palette.
And we'll set that list box
to grow with the window.
And in fact,
we should tell the window that it can,
in fact, grow.
And I'm going to add a data--
what do we call these things?
A database query control.
The database query control needs to
be told which database it's querying.
In this case, it's the ARD.
Can you all see that?
The ARD database that
I established earlier.
And I need to give it an SQL query.
So that's going to be something like
select star from system information.
Now we're going to use something called
binding with the command and shift
keys to drag to the list box from
that database query control and say,
I'd like that list box to display
the results of my database query.
And finally, I'll set the list box
to have five columns.
I should be able to run this project
and get an application that now
sees everything in the ARD database.
But you're probably going to want
to narrow that down a little bit.
So I'll quit that and drag a
pop-up menu onto the field.
And let's make it a little wider.
We're going to add another database
query control for that pop-up menu.
Command drag from that database
query control to the pop-up menu.
I would like that pop-up menu to
display the results of this query.
And this query is going to be
talking to the same ARD database,
slightly different SQL code.
This is going to be select distinct
computer ID from system information.
So if I run that,
this pop-up menu should display all
of the unique Mac addresses of every
machine that I've ever run a report on.
And you probably all know that
reports can be run manually,
but you can also set your
clients to periodically send
that data to your database.
So you don't necessarily have
to be constantly updating
this database yourself.
All right,
so the last step is to take this
pop-up menu that is getting a list
of the unique Mac addresses and
bind that to our original search.
We're going to bind that database query
with the selection from the pop-up menu.
And I have to modify that
database query slightly.
I want to select only two things.
Let's get the property name.
and the value from system information.
And I apologize if this
is a little bit small.
Where computer ID equals,
and then in quotes I can put percent one.
So that's going to hold the
value that the pop-up menu gives
it when I change the selection.
We'll switch the number of
columns back down to two.
And now I should be able
to stretch this guy wider,
pick a machine,
and see all the properties that the
database stores for that machine.
And some of those properties
would be things like
And now I should be able
to stretch this guy wider,
pick a machine,
and see all the properties that the
database stores for that machine.
And some of those properties
would be things like
So I've got a number of machines now.
I'm going to show you a finished project
that uses the same techniques that
I just showed you called ARD Tracker.
And ARD Tracker is going to
periodically do queries against ARD's
database using the Postgres plugin.
But it's going to save that data
in its own database as well.
So as those values change over time,
this application will know that.
And we've got some historical
data already in there.
Let's see if we can find the
most recent value for Lab 1.
And again,
I'm going to check file sharing
because it's something I can easily do.
But you might want to check
things like hardware properties,
amount of RAM, free space,
operating system installed,
and that sort of thing.
So Lab 1 has currently
got file sharing on.
Let's use Remote Desktop to
control that guy.
Go to sharing and turn
off personal file sharing.
ARD isn't going to know immediately
that file sharing has been turned off.
We need to run a report.
And ordinarily,
this thing isn't going to be pulling
your database every 10 seconds.
It probably will be doing
something similar once a day,
once a week,
at an interval that you decide.
I'm going to go ahead and
select all of the machines here.
We'll do a system overview report,
and I'm going to uncheck all of
the options except for sharing.
We'll do a system overview report,
and I'm going to uncheck all of
the options except for sharing.
[Transcript missing]
We'll do a system overview report,
and I'm going to uncheck all of
the options except for sharing.
And in fact, you can embed Apple Scripts
within these things,
so the Apple Script could
do a number of things.
And speaking of AppleScript,
I think that's probably it for
my portion of today's demo.
So I'll introduce Steve Hayman to you,
who will show you even more useful things
you can do with Apple Remote Desktop.
Thanks Tony.
I know this has been a very
busy week for everyone,
what with the Canadian election on
Monday and yesterday being Canada Day,
so I'm really glad that
you're all still here.
One of the things Tony was
doing was using Remote Desktop.
He's using SSH to turn on Remote Desktop.
I have the wonderful advantage
of going after him here.
So I'm going to use Remote Desktop to
turn off remote login so that
he can't do that demo anymore.
So one of the great features here
is this Send Unix Command button.
I am personally a bulk
user of this button.
And just to mess up, Tony,
we're going to do...
Oh, pardon me.
Could we have demo two, please?
Or the other demo, whichever this one is?
Thank you.
I selected a list of machines here,
and I'm going to use system setup
dash F dash set remote login off.
Now Tony's demo will not work anymore,
so this is the great advantage
of going second in the session.
If I could go back to slides, please.
We'll do more exciting
ones than that in a minute,
I promise.
I've been a Unix guy for a long time
and I can't believe how lucky I am
that they've put in this Send Unix
Command feature in Apple Remote Desktop.
I want to personally thank Nader
for responding to the harassing
way that I demanded that this
valuable feature be added.
So I want to show you interesting
ways you can muck around with this
fleet of iMacs that we have over here
using the Send Unix Command feature.
I want to talk a little bit about
discovering how the machines are set up.
I want to show you how you
can change how they're set up.
And at the end,
I might build something that
might kind of remind you of
a software update server.
So this is the magic button.
It's my favorite button and
I'm sure it will soon be
your favorite button as well.
So this is the magic button.
It's my favorite button and
I'm sure it will soon be
your favorite button as well.
Here's a different user which
is necessary if nobody happens
to be logged in at the moment.
ARD takes what you typed,
sends it to each of the
remote machines in parallel,
feeds it into the bash shell.
runs the output and displays it and
the exit status in a new computer list.
So on the remote side, it's using Bash.
It's not actually copying
a shell script file.
It's actually starting up a Bash process.
Process?
Process.
Who says Java?
Not Java.
It's Java, right?
All right,
it starts a process on the remote
machine and it feeds whatever you
type into the standard input of that,
I can't say it, process.
With this convenient path all set up,
and there's one weird directory in
there that I'll talk about in a moment.
So your commands run as the
remote user of your choice,
maybe root, maybe the login user.
So what can you type?
Well, you can type anything that you
might find in the regular Unix path.
Here's a couple of ideas.
Periodic weekly.
You might want to do that script
that only get executed at,
what is it,
4:30 on Saturday mornings if the
computer happens to be turned on.
You can run that script right now,
periodic weekly.
You might want to run repair permissions.
You might want to run software update
dash L to get a list of what's needed.
Anything that's in the standard Unix
path directories you can just type.
Type anything else if you want
to give it a full path name.
But my favorite part is because
it's actually using bash to
interpret whatever you type,
you can type several commands separated
by semicolons or on new lines,
or even a little miniature
bash script if you want.
What do you get back?
You get the last line of the output.
Nader and I have had a number of
discussions about that feature.
And you get an indication of the success
or failure of the task that you ran.
It could be that the
command you ran failed.
A lot of Unix commands execute
with success or failure
depending on some condition.
You can spot that quite
easily here in your script.
So here's an example.
The command I ran in this case last,
which gives you a list of users,
and I piped it into grep shayman.
Of these five machines,
where has shayman actually logged in?
And you can see that the grep
command failed on the third machine,
which is actually an iBook
from Henrico Public Schools,
where I'm not actually a student.
So I have never logged into
that particular computer.
But you can spot right away
which commands succeeded,
which commands failed.
And you've got these buttons where
you can pick a subset of the machines
and continue on to do something else.
So the results come back.
You can run the same task again
or possibly a different one.
Now, the bonus tool that I like
is this awkward path here,
which includes two tools,
system setup and network setup.
These are a couple of tremendously
powerful command line tools that
are buried in that directory.
But because that directory
happens to be part of the path,
you can just type the path name directly.
And what can you do with these things?
Well, the one command you really
need to know is dash help,
system setup dash help.
We'll show you a huge list of all
the different-- I'll show you a
list of all the different options
you can set on the computer.
You can set the date and the time.
You can turn the airport power off.
You actually should
really warn you to say,
you might not be able to do this again
after you turn the airport power off.
Are you sure?
You can turn off remote login,
as I just did.
You can fool with the computer name
and the startup disk and so on.
There's also a corresponding
network setup command,
which is a way of setting and getting
virtually every property you might
find in the network preference pane.
What DHCP server should we use?
What DNS server?
What IP server should we use?
You could set the gopher proxy.
Imagine how much time you're going to
save not having to walk around setting
gopher proxies on all those computers.
Save me a lot of time already.
Boy, I tell you.
Or, and if you like, you could,
theoretically,
you could send some Apple Script.
Now, with Remote Desktop,
there's other ways to send
Apple Script if you have a file,
but you can type a little bit of
Apple Script and use the command
line OSA script tool to copy
that script over and execute it.
You could even get kind of close
to a software update server.
Now, I don't pretend to suggest that what
I'm going to show you is anything
like the software update server
that's been talked about for Tiger.
But since it's possible to manipulate
software updates via the command line,
and since software updates are
really just collections of packages,
there are some interesting things you
can do with grabbing packages locally
rather than going out onto the internet
to find Apple's software updates.
So let's try some of this.
If I could go back to this one.
Us Unix guys are used to typing
little commands like this,
uptime,
how long has this computer been up, date,
what time is it right now?
All these commands are things that
you could easily do in Remote Desktop.
You could pick a list
of computers like this,
say I want to send a Unix
command and I want to see the
date on all of those computers.
And here comes the date
on all those computers,
and one of them seems to
be a little bit off here.
So this might be a good opportunity
to take the same set of computers,
try a slightly different command.
I want to use system setup
dash get using network time.
Are these computers actually
using network time service or not?
So they'll just run that
command and show me the output.
Oh,
the network time service seems to be on
on three of them and off on the others.
Now there's a corresponding dash
set network time command where
with a simple command like this
you can turn network time on and
off on all those computers as well.
I think it's a very iterative
process using this feature.
I do a lot of experimentation myself,
trying little commands in the
terminal and then seeing if they
work the same way in this tool,
which of course they do.
So for instance,
one of the things I've often used is
the command line software update tool,
software update dash L.
There's a list of all the software
updates that this computer needs.
This one happens to be up to date.
I know some of those aren't.
But you could easily run
software update tools like this
to download and install updates,
which I'll show you a little
bit about in a minute.
So all the power of the command line
here is available in this tool as well.
Now I have to admit that there are
a number of pointless things you
can do with this product as well.
I've got eight machines over there.
I might want to execute a
little bit of AppleScript.
I'll say script.
I'll feed some AppleScript on
standard input.
Say the current date.
as a string using cellos.
See how that goes.
Thank you.
The syntax checking built
into this tool is amazing.
If you mistype a command,
the product manager will personally
phone you and correct it.
Try this again here.
Here we go.
Eight computers over there.
All singing the date,
isn't that fabulous?
Now, did you notice that they
were all singing in sync?
The choir was actually doing pretty
well because all these commands
are actually executed in parallel
and then the output comes back.
Now, one might want to do a
slightly more elaborate thing.
I don't know how useful
singing the current date is,
but one might want to sing
a list of software updates.
Let's see here.
No, you can do this.
You don't have to be rude for this one.
That was an airport update
and a garage band update.
I'm not sure.
That was about right.
So when you come up with
good tasks like this,
you can certainly save
them and reuse them later.
Sing the software updates.
I'll be wanting to do this one a lot,
so I want to save that one.
I'm going to actually
add it to my task list.
There's this notion of a
list of tasks that you've
previously-- all right already.
The script is still going.
The task is finished.
But the singing is still,
I think there were more software
updates on that one than I thought.
So I have a list here.
Are we done?
Thank you, ladies.
I have a list here of some interesting
tools that I've-- command scripts that
I've written over the past little while.
And the one that I just
saved is in there as well.
So for instance, let me just see here.
Set proxies everywhere.
Where did that one go?
Oh, thank you.
I'm just a little fascinated by... No,
hang on.
Set proxies everywhere.
Thank you very much.
I was just humming that song.
It's stuck in my head now.
[Transcript missing]
The network setup command operates
in some situations on only
one network service at a time.
You can set the gopher proxy or the web
proxy for the airport with one command,
for the ethernet with another command,
for the connection through your
cell phone with another command,
but it's certainly possible to write
little scripts that ask for a list
of all the network services and then
apply the update command to each one.
This is all using basic bash scripting.
I'm running one command,
I'm looking at its output,
and I'm looping through everything else.
O'Reilly's got a pretty
good book on bash,
which I just actually picked up today.
And this is a great way to
get started with writing
little mini scripts like this.
Part of the task is learning
the syntax of the bash language
for doing a loop like that.
Part of the syntax is learning the
details of the particular command.
Please don't everybody go and set
their web proxy to hayman.net.
That's my server.
It's just an example.
So I could run that one if
I wanted to and set the web
proxy on all of those computers.
and now none of them will be able to do
anything because it turns out my server
at home is down right at the moment.
So fortunately I saved another
one of these here that puts the
proxies back to the way they were.
One might very quickly build up a little
toolkit of useful routines in this way.
Now let me talk about
software updates for a moment.
If you run software update dash L,
it will show you in a multi-line
format all the software updates that
are available for your computer.
When I ran it earlier on here,
it turns out this particular presentation
system doesn't need any software updates.
So it just said your
software is up to date.
But if you've ever tried it,
you'll see that several
lines of output come out.
You need this update.
You need that one.
This one's required.
This one needs a reboot.
Well, you can massage the format
of that sort of thing
[Transcript missing]
is that better?
You name dash R will conveniently
tell me whether I'm on Jaguar or
Panther by handing out a number
that ends in a six or a seven.
That's so handy.
The syntax of the software
update command actually changed
between Jaguar and Panther.
On my script here,
I can account for that.
If we run this one,
this will just show me a nice
little one line list of who
needs what software update.
One of the machines,
they all need airport extreme and
several of them need garage band.
So after a while, you build up a little
collection of tools like this.
You could then pick this one,
and you might want to run
another script that actually did
software update with that one.
But I want to suggest
a different strategy.
The way software updates actually
work is that your computer,
and again,
I'm talking about how it works now,
not the future software update server,
your computer talks to Akamai or
Apple or something and gets a list
of what packages are available.
And then your computer goes and
downloads the 80 megabyte update.
And maybe all 500 computers in
your building go and download the
80 megabyte update and install it.
Now,
we're making some great progress with
the software update server for Tiger,
but I want to suggest a way you might
like to work around this locally.
Software updates are just packages.
They're just .pkg files
like anything else.
Let's suppose you had a server,
and you put the interesting packages
that you liked on the server.
Maybe you've got the trial
version of Omni something,
and you've got the Apple security update.
Put them all in a shared
folder on a server.
And then you can have a
little script that says,
all right, I want to mount that server.
I want to see what packages
are in that folder.
And remember,
I'm going to do this on every computer.
I want to compare that
to library receipts,
which is the list of packages
that are in that folder.
And then I want to use the list of
what packages I've already installed
so that I don't waste any time
installing a package I've already got.
And then I'd like to use the
command line installer command to
grab packages off my local server,
maybe the server down the
hall or in the school,
and install them locally.
So I spent a little bit of time messing
around with something like that.
And let's see here.
Install packages from server.
This is just really a
starting point for-- oh boy,
this is tricky.
Hang on,
let me back out a little bit here.
This is a starting point for discussion,
let's say.
I want to look and see
if anybody is logged in.
And I want to exit if
someone is logged in.
It's kind of rude to do a software
update while someone's logged in.
And then I want to mount-- this is ugly.
I want to mount this server here.
That's a server we have over here.
I want to mount it via AFP.
And that's going to give me a
mount point called slash temp
slash packages or something.
And then I want to go
through that mount point.
And for every package I see there,
for every .pkg,
I want to compare that with
what I've got in slash library
receipts on this computer.
In other words, have I installed that
package already or not?
And then building up a little list.
And then for each one in the needed list,
I'm going to run the installer to
install that particular package.
Let's give it a shot.
I only have a couple of phony packages.
In fact, I think I only have one phony
package on my server over there.
But you could certainly add
other packages of your choice,
commercial applications,
packages that you've made,
Apple software updates that
you've downloaded directly.
And if we actually run this,
all those machines are in use.
You noticed that my script
exited if the machine was in use.
That was kind of polite.
Well, let me log out a few people.
Where do you do that?
You noticed that my script
exited if the machine was in use.
That was kind of polite.
Well, let me log out a few people.
Where do you do that?
Now, here's an interesting situation.
Nobody was logged in,
so I can't do any of
this as the current user.
What I really should be doing,
thank you for coughing,
I wish you'd coughed
about 30 seconds ago.
It'd be better to do this as root
rather than the current user.
You can always do things as root
whether anybody's logged in or not.
Let's try this again here.
Well, what's going on there?
We'll keep going.
Well, you know what?
It actually worked the
previous time I was doing it.
Actually, all needed packages have been
installed on those two computers.
The other ones are in use or something
has happened to the client software,
what we were discussing here.
Probably because I logged people out.
What does it need to be?
Hey, tech support guy,
you helped me with a double quote before.
What do we do now?
So this is just a starting
point for discussion.
I think you'll find that you could
have packages stored locally to
your end users and then you as an
administrator run a script like
this once in a while that grabs the
packages and installs them rather
than everybody going and pulling them
from Akamai at vast cost to everyone.
I plan on cleaning this script up
a little bit and posting it on the
WWDC server when we're all done.
Oh, no, wait, no, but wait, but wait, no,
wait.
You can't phone me about it, okay?
So one last thing I wanted to try here.
We were having a few cocktails and gosh,
I'd really like it if those
two were still on here for
this little effect guys.
What do you want to do here?
Hang on a moment.
Let's just, it never hurts to quit remote
desktop and start it again.
Well, we'll try it anyway.
We're going to take all
these machines that are up.
Eh, not that one here.
I found the greatest little
command the other day.
I don't know if you know about this.
DRU till tray open.
DRU till tray close.
I'm going to put that in a loop.
We'll go around ten times.
I was doing it infinitely before.
That was kind of mean.
Oh, I need a do up there.
I've got a little iMac ballet going here.
It's going to fail on the machines,
two of the machines,
but the other six are going to go.
Thank you.
and in.
You can sing at the same time.
and Dan.
Oh, that only went around once.
I must have done the jot wrong.
Well, you know, this is why it's great
to have these commands
I was showing this to somebody earlier.
I was telling them about it.
I said I was going to have
all these trays come in.
By the way, this is a great script.
If you're in one of our retail stores,
just go to one of the computers and--
Maybe Mike,
if you wouldn't mind logging in there,
that would help me.
The fun thing to do,
make it a startup items or something, so,
well, they're not looking,
so that they reboot and the
machines all come out and go in.
Are you restarting those two there?
So I was describing this
to somebody earlier,
and he said, "Wouldn't it be great,
"it was great to have
them coming in and out,
"but wouldn't it be great if
you could make them do the wave?
"Ah ha ha ha ha."
I hate it when people say that.
Somebody said that to me at lunch.
So I had to go and figure that out.
So if you'll just stand by here.
We'll do the wave on these iMacs.
I hate it when people say that.
Somebody said that to me at lunch.
So I had to go and figure that out.
So if you'll just stand by here.
We'll do the wave on these iMacs.
I probably spent more time
on that than I did on the
software update server script.
Anyway,
I think I've pretty much hosed these
machines in one way or another.
There's one thing I think as system
administrators that we all wish after
we've really messed up a machine,
we really wish Mike Bombich was
around to help us out of a jam.
Mike here?
Oh, Mike is here.
Hi, Mike.
Thank you, Steve.
Gotta leave it up to a systems engineer
and a consulting engineer to walk
into some iMacs and do some damage.
Yep, that's why we're here.
So I think that Tony and Steve have
shown you how Remote Desktop has a
great set of tools for day-to-day
management of a whole bunch of machines,
or just eight machines
that you can no longer buy.
For the machines that you can still get,
they're still the arduous task
of doing mass deployments.
And, uh, oops, wrong button.
And there's still some challenges
that face system administrators
when it comes to deploying software
onto a whole bunch of machines.
You have things like managing
multiple configurations of machines,
if you have lots of different
labs for different uses,
just having a large number of
machines to deploy software onto,
machines located really far away
and you don't feel like getting
your butt off your chair and
running out to that machine,
and managing machine-specific settings,
you know, sneaker net running around each
machine and getting things all set.
And then yada yada,
limited time in training and nobody has
money and we all sing the same story.
So there's actually several
solutions to some of these problems.
First of all,
if you create a master disk image of
the software that's common to all of
your machines and then couple that with
block level copying and network booting,
you can greatly reduce the
amount of time that it takes
to get software out onto 50,
100, or 32,000 machines.
With Apple Remote Desktop's set network
disk or set startup disk command,
this kind of solves the problem of
dealing with machines located remotely.
And then if you can get a machine to
set its own machine specific settings,
you spend a lot less time running
around to each machine and a
lot more time sitting on your
butt playing Quake or something.
So the final challenge, of course,
is the management of
machine specific settings.
And this is where I think the
Postgres database is going
to be the most important.
database in ARD2 can
really be a great solution.
The database in ARD2 can
We'll collect machine and software data
using the system profiler frameworks
and cache that information locally,
hand that information
on to the ARD client,
and the ARD client returns it
up to the ARD admin and that
plugs it into the database.
Tony's already shown you quite
a bit about the database,
so I won't go into the ins
and outs of the database,
but I am going to show you
a little bit more about what
we can do with that database.
will collect machine and software data
using the system profiler frameworks
and cache that information locally,
hand that information
on to the ARD client,
and the ARD client returns it
up to the ARD admin and that
plugs it into the database.
Tony's already shown you quite
a bit about the database,
so I won't go into the ins
and outs of the database,
but I am going to show you
a little bit more about what
we can do with that database.
To access information
from the ARD database,
you could use tools like Tony showed,
or you can just use the P-SQL command
that's in our favorite directory,
remote management inside core services.
And here I have an example of just
some basic syntax that will dump all
the information from the database.
Perhaps a more friendly way of
accessing the information is to use the
functions that are built into PHP for
accessing data from a Postgres database.
If you were to store your database,
for example, on a Mac OS X server,
you could set up a PHP script that could
return an entire record about a computer
back to the client that requested it.
And you could do this
in any format you want.
I have XML as an example.
So the client could then request a
PHP script and download it using curl and
use its own Mac address as an argument.
And then your PHP script can
send it back and the client can
store it in the temp directory.
And you can access it on your client
machines while they're net booted or
whatever and retrieve values from that
plist file using the defaults command.
So I've actually built
a PHP script like this.
Much bigger up there.
And you can see an example of the kind of
output that you can generate using PHP.
Now, I used XML formatting because
that met my requirements.
If you're just using a shell script and
you're just using awk or grep-- and awk
is my favorite program-- then you could
certainly just have flat text and use
just a couple lines for your output.
So how do we actually use
the ARD Postgres database
to make deployment easier?
After all, that's what we're looking for.
Well,
the database is more or less read-only.
However,
there are those four computer information
fields that you can plug data into.
And again,
I'm not trying to add any work to
your schedule to run around and type
information into each one of these.
Fortunately,
the admin application has a change
client settings dialog that allows you
to change the data in these fields.
You can do it on a per machine basis,
or you can select a group
of machines and do that.
So,
Select a group of machines and then
choose the change client settings
option from the manage menu and then
plug some data into those fields.
And you can use data like the path to a
disk image that you would like to restore
to the machine or maybe the room number
or the building that the machine is in.
And then on the client
side in a shell script,
you can use that information to
either apply that disk image to
the local drive or say set up
printers based on what room it's in.
Finally, get your database all set up,
then you can initiate deployment using
Apple Remote Desktop's chain startup
disk and set it to boot from your net
install disk image and get 'er done.
So here's what a deployment can
now look like with ARD's database.
Note that I do--
mentioned the use of a
third-party product in here.
However, you can use the tools that
are built into Mac OS X,
Mac OS X Server, and some shell scripts.
So first,
Get your master machine set up
exactly the way you want it.
Use Disk Utility or Net Restore
Helper to create a disk
image of your master machine,
store it on a file server.
Next, use Network Image Utility or
Net Restore Helper to create a net
install image set that will boot
up to any type of application that
will use ASR to do some restores.
Finally,
use Apple Remote Desktop to tell all
of your target machines to reboot
from your NetInstall image set.
When the client machines
are finished booting,
they launch the ASR application.
The ASR application
queries the ARD database,
retrieves a record specific
to that target machine.
The ASR application then
looks through that record,
pulls out the information it
needs to find the disk image,
applies that disk image
to the internal drive,
and finally, to wrap everything up,
it runs some post-action scripts to
apply any other machine-specific settings
that were in that machine record.
Not quite as sexy as the
stuff Steve was doing,
but it's really going to save
you a lot of time every day.
So that scenario is going to
work great for a lot of people.
There's going to be some people,
some system administrators, however,
that may want to store more
machine-specific data than can
be supported by those four custom
computer information fields.
For these people,
we can go ahead and extend the
functionality of the ARD database.
After all,
it is just a standard Postgres database.
So one thing that should be pointed
out is that the system information
table is essentially read-only.
It's read-only insofar as every time
you collect a system information report,
any changes that you may
have made will get wiped out.
So system information table is for ARD,
no touchy.
If you want,
you can add additional tables
for system imaging information.
I have some syntax up here for that.
And then populate that database
or that table with your own
machine-specific information.
There is one other caveat, though.
ARD, if it ever has trouble
accessing the database,
it'll try three times,
and if it fails the third time,
it'll just wipe out the
database and start from scratch.
So you may just want to create
another database instead and put,
say, maybe a PHP front-end on that.
And then when a client requests
information from your database,
your PHP script can pull
that information together.
and provide it back in a unified format.
So if you wanted to do something
like this on Mac OS X server,
you would first need to install
the Postgres aware version of PHP.
Mark Lionage has a great little package
installer that makes it really simple.
Next,
develop a front end for managing system
imaging data and a database for that.
And finally,
develop a front end to report
on various information from your
ARD system information database.
Sounds easy, huh?
So everybody run out and do that.
Well, actually,
I have developed a prototype and,
of course, it's free and open source,
so there's a great starting point
for developing something like this.
Thanks, but I'm not done.
So the first thing that I'd like to show
is change client settings.
So I've got a list set up
here of these eight machines.
And the change client settings dialog
can actually do a lot of things.
But I'm going to go ahead
and skip through these.
It basically just sets any
preferences that you find in the
sharing preference pane for ARD.
And on the last item,
we can go ahead and say--
www.admob.com/diskimages/wdc-master
and we'll call this North Beach.
That's okay.
It's not really gonna do anything.
So we could go ahead and set these.
Receiving settings, prepping, changing,
And then we can go ahead and gather
another system information report.
And I'm not quite as picky as Tony.
I'm just going to grab a new one.
And it'll collect that changed
information from each machine and now
your database has been updated and it's
got the new information required to
do whatever you need to do to that lab.
So of course,
you would need some client side scripts
in your net install image set that
would do something with this data.
I'm actually not going to cover that.
What I will cover,
and I don't really need to change this.
So again, just for thoroughness,
for raw Postgres access,
you just use the rmdb.bundle,
the commands within there.
And run a standard SQL query.
Get lots and lots of data.
This isn't really very useful.
For us, so what we can do instead is
allow our ARD database to be
accessed by the local host,
by a PHP.
And to do that,
you can modify those files that
Tony was mentioning or I actually
just released this yesterday.
It's called Atom,
Apple Remote Desktop Database
Access Manager.
You click a button and it
enables local host access.
Just a little quick and dirty guy.
Next, write yourself some PHP scripts.
And this is a pretty
simple one right here.
It basically will just return an
entire record from the ARD database.
Or not.
There it is.
So this is actually pretty short,
but basically just loops through
that data to each of those system
information elements and returns
that data back to the client.
So finally, when you get your entire...
PHP database solution all
set up and looking pretty.
You can set up groups.
And here I have a group of computers.
There's eight computers over here.
And this particular script will
report back from two databases,
from the NetRestore database
that I created and from the
ARD database that already exists.
So what we have here is a summary of
information from the ARD database.
If you want to get more information,
you can click a link and it will
return data for that computer.
Looking nice and pretty.
And then we can also
use this for management.
And that's the most exciting part.
So right now,
you can see that all of these computers,
well, first of all,
these are the preferences
for network store,
if you recognize them.
Right now, everything's set to no,
and there's no configuration.
But we can go ahead and say,
apply some parameters to
this specific machine.
Or I can go in here and I can say,
apply these parameters
to all of these machines.
Restore the WWDC master to
the first drive available.
It's updated my database.
And now...
I heard he doesn't have quite
enough cowbells and sound effects,
does he?
He's going to work on that.
So we can go ahead and typically
I would just use the set network
startup disk and tell all the machines
to reboot from a net install server,
but I don't have a net
install server here.
So I will simulate it by
copying out Net Restore to
each machine and open it up.
Let me delete this task.
Let's try this again.
Copy items.
And then if we take a look
at one of these machines,
In the final release, it'll work great.
But essentially,
this is what it's going to look like.
The machine will come up.
And actually, fortunately,
it wouldn't do a... It's probably
because I enabled a fully automate.
But it automatically picked WWDC Master,
and I've got my imaging information,
all of my options,
and it would have just...
Gotten or done.
A few clicks of a button and
your machines are re-imaged.
So that's it.
Coming soon to a version
tracker near you.
Alright so just where you can get
more information on the documentation
for the product and who to contact.
You can contact me for the
product specific information
as well as Jason Skip from a
developer relations perspective.